<pre><code>ooooooooooooo            .o8       oooo             .oooooo..o     .                       oooo                           
8'   888   `8           "888       `888            d8P'    `Y8   .o8                       `888                           
     888       .oooo.    888oooo.   888   .ooooo.  Y88bo.      .o888oo  .oooo.    .ooooo.   888  oooo   .ooooo.  oooo d8b 
     888      `P  )88b   d88' `88b  888  d88' `88b  `"Y8888o.    888   `P  )88b  d88' `"Y8  888 .8P'   d88' `88b `888""8P 
     888       .oP"888   888   888  888  888ooo888      `"Y88b   888    .oP"888  888        888888.    888ooo888  888     
     888      d8(  888   888   888  888  888    .o oo     .d8P   888 . d8(  888  888   .o8  888 `88b.  888    .o  888     
    o888o     `Y888""8o  `Y8bod8P' o888o `Y8bod8P' 8""88888P'    "888" `Y888""8o `Y8bod8P' o888o o888o `Y8bod8P' d888b    </code></pre>

Publish spreadsheets as interactive tables. And do it on deadline.

h2. Features

* Convert a CSV file into an interactive HTML table that sorts, filters and paginates.
* Quickly publish as static files.
* Sync static files with Amazon S3 for instant publishing.
* Instantly syndicate data as CSV, XLS and JSON.
* Post an RSS feed and sitemap that promote the latest data.

h2. Resources

* Documentation at "http://datadesk.github.com/latimes-table-stacker":http://datadesk.github.com/latimes-table-stacker
* Working demonstration at "http://table-stacker.s3-website-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/":http://table-stacker.s3-website-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/


h2. Getting started - setting up Tablestacker for the first time

h3. Requirements

* Homebrew (needed to install pip on a Mac)
* git
* pip
* python
* virtualenvwrapper
* s3cmd

h3. Install the code on your computer

Create a virtual environment to store your application. We do this with virtualenvwrapper, which creates a walled-off garden for the Python code to work without distraction from the outside world. If you don’t have it, you’ll need to install it now.

<pre><code>
$ pip install virtualenv
# Or maybe ...
$ sudo easy_install install virtualenv
# Or, if you're in Ubuntu ...
$ sudo apt-get install python-virtualenv
</code></pre>

Now create a virtualenv for tablestacker.

<pre><code>
$ mkvirtualenv cir-table-stacker
</code></pre>

Now jump into the directory it creates.

<pre><code>
$ cd my-table-stacker
</code></pre>

Activate the virtual environment.

<pre><code>
$ workon cir-table-stacker
</code></pre>

Download the latest version of the code repository into a directory called project.

<pre><code>
$ git clone git://github.com/cirlabs/cir-table-stacker.git project
</code></pre>

And jump in and get ready to work.

<pre><code>
$ cd project
</code></pre>

Install our app’s Python dependencies.

<pre><code>
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
</code></pre>

Create the project’s database

<pre><code>
$ python manage.py syncdb
</code></pre>

At this point the workflow is the same as for the original tablestacker, maintained by the LA Times datadesk.

[Go here](http://datadesk.github.com/latimes-table-stacker/#getting-started), then scroll down to <strong>"02. Build the example tables"</strong>